CHAPTER IV
Of the Quality of Products and Services, of the Prevention and the Reparation of the Damages

SECTION II
Responsibility for Product Fact and Service

        Article 12. The manufacturer, producer, manufacturer, national or foreign, and the importer shall, regardless of the existence of fault, repair the damages caused to consumers by defects in design, manufacture, construction, assembly, formulas, manipulation , Presentation or packaging of their products, as well as insufficient or inadequate information on their use and risks.

        § 1 The product is defective when it does not offer the security that is legitimately expected of it, taking into account the relevant circumstances, among which:

        I - its presentation;

        II - the use and risks that are reasonably expected of him;

        III - the time when it was put into circulation.

        § 2 The product is not considered defective because another one of better quality has been placed on the market.

        Paragraph 3. The manufacturer, the manufacturer, the producer or the importer shall not be liable unless he proves:

        I - who did not place the product on the market;

        II - that although the product has been placed on the market, the defect does not exist;

        III - the exclusive fault of the consumer or third party.

        Article 13. The merchant is also responsible, under the terms of the previous article, when:

        I - the manufacturer, the manufacturer, the producer or the importer can not be identified;

        II - the product is supplied without clear identification of its manufacturer, producer, builder or importer;

        III - do not store perishable products properly.

        Single paragraph. Anyone who makes payment to the injured party may exercise the right of return against the others responsible, according to their participation in causing the harmful event.

        Article 14. The service provider responds, regardless of the existence of fault, to the repair of damages caused to consumers by defects in the provision of services, as well as by insufficient or inadequate information on their fruition and risks.

        § 1 The service is defective when it does not provide the security that the consumer can expect, taking into account the relevant circumstances, among which:

        I - the manner of its supply;

        II - the result and the risks reasonably expected of it;

        III - the time when it was provided.

        Paragraph 2. The service is not considered defective by the adoption of new techniques.

        § 3 The service provider shall not be liable only when proving:

        I - that, having rendered the service, the defect does not exist;

        II - the exclusive fault of the consumer or third party.

        § 4 The personal responsibility of the liberal professionals will be verified through the verification of fault.

        Art. 15. (Vetoed).

        Art. 16. (Vetoed).

        Art. 17. For the purposes of this Section, all the victims of the event are equipped with the consumers.
