CHAPTER VI
Protection

SECTION I
General Provisions

        Article 46. Contracts that regulate consumer relations shall not oblige consumers if they are not afforded the opportunity to prior knowledge of their content or if the respective instruments are drafted in such a way as to make it difficult to understand their meaning and scope .

        Art. 47. The contractual clauses will be interpreted in a more favorable way to the consumer.

        Article 48. The declarations of intent contained in particular documents, receipts and pre-contracts relating to consumer relations bind the supplier, including specific execution, in accordance with art. 84 and paragraphs.

        Article 49. The consumer may withdraw from the contract within 7 days of signing or receiving the product or service, whenever the contracting of products and services occurs outside the commercial establishment, especially by telephone Or at home.

        Single paragraph. If the consumer exercises the right of repentance provided for in this article, the amounts eventually paid, in any way, during the reflection period, will be immediately returned monetarily restated.

        Art. 50. The contractual guarantee is complementary to the legal one and will be conferred by written agreement.

        Single paragraph. The guarantee term or equivalent must be standardized and clarify, in an adequate manner, the same guarantee, as well as the form, time and place in which it can be exercised and the costs borne by the consumer and must be delivered to him , Duly completed by the supplier, at the time of delivery, accompanied by instruction manual, installation and use of the product in didactic language, with illustrations.

SECTION II
Of Abusive Clauses

        Art. 51. The contractual clauses related to the supply of products and services that are:

        I - preclude, exonerate or diminish the liability of the supplier for defects of any nature of the products and services or imply a waiver or provision of rights. In consumer relations between the supplier and the consumer corporate, the compensation may be limited, in justifiable situations;

        II - exclude from the consumer the option of reimbursement of the amount already paid, in the cases provided for in this code;

        III - transfer responsibilities to third parties;

        IV - establish obligations considered unfair, abusive, placing the consumer at an extreme disadvantage, or incompatible with good faith or equity;

        V - (Vetoed);

        VI - establish an inversion of the burden of proof to the detriment of the consumer;

        VII - determine the compulsory use of arbitration;

        VIII - impose a representative to conclude or carry out another legal transaction by the consumer;

        IX - leave to the supplier the option to conclude or not the contract, although obliging the consumer;

        X - allow the supplier, directly or indirectly, to change the price unilaterally;

        XI - authorize the supplier to cancel the contract unilaterally, without equal right being conferred on the consumer;

        XII - oblige the consumer to reimburse the costs of collecting his obligation, without the same right being conferred on the supplier;

        XIII - authorize the supplier to unilaterally modify the content or quality of the contract, after its conclusion;

        XIV - infringe or permit the violation of environmental norms;

        XV - are in disagreement with the consumer protection system;

        XVI - make it possible to waive the right to compensation for necessary improvements.

        § 1 The exaggerated advantage, among other cases, is the advantage that:

        I - offends the fundamental principles of the legal system to which it belongs;

        II - restricts fundamental rights or obligations inherent in the nature of the contract, in such a way as to threaten its object or contractual balance;

        III - it is excessively onerous for the consumer, considering the nature and content of the contract, the interest of the parties and other circumstances peculiar to the case.

        § 2. The nullity of an abusive contractual clause does not invalidate the contract, except upon its absence, despite the integration efforts, excessive burden is incurred by either party.

        § 3 ° (Vetoed).

        § 4. Any consumer or entity that represents him or her is entitled to request the Public Prosecution Service to file the competent action to declare the nullity of a contractual clause that contravenes the provisions of this Code or in any way does not ensure the right balance between rights and obligations of the Parties.
        
        Article 52. In the supply of products or services that involve the granting of credit or the granting of financing to the consumer, the supplier shall, among other requirements, inform him in advance and properly about:

        I - price of the product or service in national currency;

        II - the amount of default interest and the annual effective interest rate;

        III - additions legally provided for;

        IV - number and periodicity of benefits;

        V - total sum payable, with and without financing.

        § 1 The fines of default due to the default of obligations in its term can not be superior to two percent of the value of the benefit. (Redaction given by Law No. 9.298, dated 8.8.1996)

        Paragraph 2. The consumer is guaranteed the early settlement of the debt, totally or partially, by proportional reduction of interest and other increases.

        § 3º (Vetoed).

        Article 53. In contracts for the purchase and sale of furniture or real estate through payment in installments, as well as in fiduciary disposals as collateral, clauses that establish the total loss of benefits paid to the creditor, Due to the default, request the termination of the agreement and the resumption of the alienated product.

        § 1 (Vetoed).

        § 2 - In the contracts of the consortium system of durable products, the compensation or restitution of the installments paid, in the form of this article, will have discounted, in addition to the economic advantage obtained with the enjoyment, the losses that the desistent or defaulting cause to the group.

        § 3. The contracts referred to in the caput of this article shall be expressed in national currency.

SECTION III
Of the Accession Agreements

        Article 54. An adhesion contract is one whose clauses have been approved by the competent authority or established unilaterally by the supplier of products or services, without the consumer being able to discuss or substantially modify its contents.

        § 1 The insertion of a clause in the form does not detract from the nature of the contract.

        § 2 In the adhesion contracts, a resolutory clause is accepted, provided that the alternative, being the choice to the consumer, excepting the provisions of paragraph 2 of the previous article.

        § 3 The written membership contracts shall be written in clear terms and with clear and legible characters, whose font size shall not be less than twelve, in order to facilitate their understanding by the consumer. (Redaction given by nº 11.785, of 2008)

        § 4 The clauses that imply limitation of consumer right should be drafted with prominence, allowing its immediate and easy understanding.
