CHAPTER VII
Administrative Sanctions
(See Law No. 8,656, of 1993)

        Article 55. The Union, the States and the Federal District, in concurrent character and in their respective areas of administrative action, will lower norms related to the production, industrialization, distribution and consumption of products and services.

        § 1 The Federal Government, the States, the Federal District and the Municipalities shall supervise and control the production, industrialization, distribution, advertising of products and services and the consumer market, in the interest of preserving life, health, safety, Consumer information and well-being, by lowering the standards that are needed.

        § 2 ° (Vetoed).

        § 3 The Federal, State, Federal District and municipal bodies with powers to control and control the consumer market shall maintain permanent commissions for the elaboration, revision and updating of the standards referred to in § 1, with the participation of consumers and suppliers being mandatory.

        § 4 The official bodies may issue notifications to suppliers so that, under penalty of disobedience, they provide information on matters of interest to the consumer, safeguarding the industrial secret.

        Article 56. Infringements of consumer protection rules shall be subject, as the case may be, to the following administrative sanctions, without prejudice to those of a civil, criminal nature and those defined in specific rules:

        I - a fine;

        II - seizure of the product;

        III - destruction of the product;

        IV - cancellation of the registration of the product with the competent body;

        V - product manufacturing ban;

        VI - suspension of supply of products or services;

        VII - temporary suspension of activity;

        VIII - revocation of concession or permission to use;

        IX - cancellation of license of the establishment or activity;

        X - interdiction, total or partial, of establishment, work or activity;

        XI - administrative intervention;

        XII - imposition of counterpropaganda.

        Single paragraph. The sanctions provided for in this article shall be applied by the administrative authority, within the scope of its attribution, and may be applied cumulatively, including by precautionary measure, antecedent or incident of administrative procedure.

        Article 57. The penalty of a fine, graduated according to the seriousness of the infraction, the advantage received and the economic condition of the supplier, will be applied by administrative procedure, reverting to the Fund referred to in Law No. 7.347, of July 24 Of 1985, the amounts applicable to the Union, or to the state or municipal consumer protection funds in other cases. (Drafting provided by Law 8,656 of May 21, 1993)

        Single paragraph. The fine will be in an amount not less than two hundred and not more than three million times the value of the Tax Reference Unit (Ufir), or equivalent index that will replace it. (Paragraph added by Law No. 8,703, dated 9.9.1993)

        Art. 58. Penalties of seizure, destruction of products, prohibition of manufacture of products, suspension of supply of product or service, cancellation of registration of the product and revocation of the concession or permission to use shall be applied by the administration, through Administrative procedure, ample defense is assured, when there are found defects of quantity or quality due to inadequacy or insecurity of the product or service.

        Art. 59. The penalties of cancellation of a permit, prohibition and temporary suspension of the activity, as well as administrative intervention, shall be applied through an administrative procedure, secured ample defense, when the supplier recidivates in the practice of the most serious infractions In this code and in consumer legislation.

        § 1 The concession penalty shall be applied to the public service concessionaire, when it breaches a legal or contractual obligation.

        § 2 The penalty of administrative intervention will be applied whenever the circumstances of fact advise against the cassation of license, the prohibition or suspension of the activity.

        § 3 - In the event of a judicial action in which the imposition of an administrative penalty is discussed, there will be no recidivism until the final sentence is passed.

        Article 60. The imposition of counterpropaganda will be commenced when the supplier incurs in the practice of misleading or abusive advertising, in terms of art. 36 and its paragraphs, always at the expense of the offender.

        § 1. The counterpropaganda will be disclosed by the responsible in the same way, frequency and size, and preferably in the same vehicle, place, space and time, in a way capable of undoing the mischief of misleading or abusive advertising.
