CHAPTER V
Business Practices

SECTION I
Of the General Provisions

        Article 29. For the purposes of this and the following Chapter, consumers shall be deemed to be all persons who are determinable or not, subject to the practices laid down in this Chapter.

SECTION II
From Offer

        Art. 30. All information or publicity, sufficiently precise, transmitted by any form or means of communication with respect to products and services offered or presented, obliges the supplier that makes it available or of its use and integrates the contract that will be celebrated .

         Article 31. The offer and presentation of products or services must ensure correct, clear, precise, ostensive and in Portuguese language information about its characteristics, qualities, quantity, composition, price, warranty, As well as on the risks they pose to the health and safety of consumers.

        Single paragraph. The information referred to in this Article on refrigerated products offered to the consumer shall be indelibly recorded. (Included in Law No. 11,989, of 2009)

        Art. 32. Manufacturers and importers shall ensure the supply of components and spare parts until the manufacture or importation of the product ceases.

        Single paragraph. Once the production or import is stopped, the offer must be maintained for a reasonable period of time, in accordance with the law.

        Art. 33. In the case of offer or sale by telephone or postal reimbursement, the name of the manufacturer and address on the packaging, advertising and on all forms used in the commercial transaction shall be indicated.

        Single paragraph. Advertising of goods and services by telephone is prohibited when the call is costly to the originating consumer. (Included in Law No. 11,800, of 2008).

        Art. 34. The supplier of the product or service is jointly and severally liable for the acts of its representatives or autonomous representatives.

        Art. 35. If the supplier of products or services refuses to comply with the offer, presentation or publicity, the consumer may alternatively and at his / her free choice:

        I - require the enforced fulfillment of the obligation, in terms of the offer, presentation or publicity;

        II - accept another product or equivalent service;

        III - terminate the contract, with the right to refund any amount anticipated, monetarily updated, and to losses and damages.

SECTION III
Advertising

        Art. 36. Advertising must be conveyed in such a way that the consumer, easily and immediately, identifies it as such.

        Single paragraph. The supplier, in the advertising of its products or services, will keep in its possession, for the information of the legitimate interested parties, the factual, technical and scientific data that support the message.

        Article 37. All misleading or abusive advertising is prohibited.

        § 1. Any form of information or communication of an advertising nature, whether wholly or partially false, or in any other way, even by omission, is capable of misleading the consumer as to the nature, characteristics, quality, quantity, properties , Origin, price and any other data about products and services.

        § 2. It is abusive, among others, discriminatory advertising of any nature, that incites violence, exploits fear or superstition, takes advantage of the child's judgment and experience, disrespects environmental values, or is capable of inducing Consumers to behave in a way that is harmful or dangerous to their health or safety.

        § 3 For the purposes of this code, advertising is misleading by default when it fails to disclose essential information about the product or service.

        § 4 ° (Vetoed).

        Art. 38. The burden of proving the veracity and correctness of information or advertising communication rests with those who sponsor them.

SECTION IV
From Abusive Practices

        Art. 39. The supplier of products or services is prohibited, among other abusive practices: (Redaction given by Law 8,884, dated 11.6.1994)

        I - condition the supply of product or service to the supply of another product or service, and, without just cause, quantitative limits;

        II - refuse to attend to the demands of the consumers, in the exact measure of their stock availability, and also, in accordance with the customs and customs;

        III - send or deliver to the consumer, without previous request, any product, or provide any service;

        IV - to prevail against the consumer's weakness or ignorance, in view of his age, health, knowledge or social condition, in order to impinge his products or services;

        V - to demand from the consumer a manifestly excessive advantage;

        VI - to execute services without the prior elaboration of budget and express authorization of the consumer, except those resulting from previous practices between the parties;

        VII - to pass on derogatory information, referring to an act practiced by the consumer in the exercise of his rights;

        VIII - placing on the consumer market any product or service that is not in accordance with the standards issued by the competent official bodies or, if specific standards do not exist, by the Brazilian Association of Technical Standards or another entity accredited by the National Council of Metrology, Standardization and Quality Industrial (Conmetro);

        IX - to refuse the sale of goods or services, directly to those who are willing to acquire them upon prompt payment, except in cases of intermediation regulated by special laws; (Redaction provided by Law No. 8,884, dated 11.6.1994)

        X - raise without cause the price of products or services. (Included by Law 8,884, dated 11.6.1994)

        XI - Device included in MPV no. 1,890-67, dated 10/22/1999, transformed into item XIII, upon conversion into Law No. 9,870 of November 23, 1999

        XII - fail to stipulate a deadline for the fulfillment of its obligation or leave the fixing of its initial term in its sole discretion. (Included by Law 9,008, dated 21.3.1995)

        XIII - apply formula or readjustment index different from legal or contractually established. (Included by Law No. 9,870, dated 23.11.1999)

        Single paragraph. The services rendered and the products sent or delivered to the consumer, in the hypothesis provided for in item III, are equated to the free samples, and there is no obligation to pay.

        Art. 40. The service provider shall be obliged to deliver to the consumer a prior budget, specifying the value of the labor, the materials and equipment to be employed, the payment conditions, as well as the start and end dates of the services.

        § 1 Unless otherwise stipulated, the budgeted amount shall be valid for a period of ten days, counted from its receipt by the consumer.

        § 2. Once approved by the consumer, the budget obliges the contractors and can only be changed through free negotiation of the parties.

        § 3. The consumer is not liable for any liens or additions arising from the contracting of third-party services not provided for in the previous budget.

        Article 41. In the case of the supply of products or services subject to the price control or price control regime, suppliers must comply with official limits, failing to do so, respond for the refund of the amount received in excess, monetarily updated, And the consumer may demand at his choice, the undoing of the business, without prejudice to other applicable sanctions.

SECTION V
From Debt Collection

        Article 42. In the collection of debts, the defaulting consumer will not be exposed to ridicule, nor will he be subjected to any kind of embarrassment or threat.

        Single paragraph. The consumer charged in an undue amount has the right to the repetition of the claim, for an amount equal to twice that paid in excess, plus monetary correction and legal interest, unless there is a justifiable mistake.

        Art. 42-A. In all debit collection documents presented to the consumer, the name, address and registration number of the Individual Taxpayer's Registry (CPF) or the National Taxpayer Registry (CNPJ) of the supplier of the corresponding product or service must be included. (Included in Law no. 12.039, of 2009)

SECTION VI
From the Data Banks and Consumer Registry

        Art. 43. The consumer, without prejudice to the provisions of art. 86, will have access to the information in the registers, records, records and personal and consumer data filed on it, as well as their respective sources.

        § 1. The registers and data of consumers must be objective, clear, true and in language of easy understanding, not being able to contain negative information referring to period superior to five years.

        § 2. The opening of a registration, registration, registration and personal and consumer data shall be communicated in writing to the consumer, when not requested by him.

        § 3. The consumer, whenever he finds inaccuracy in his data and registers, may demand its immediate correction, and the archivist must, within five working days, communicate the change to the eventual recipients of the incorrect information.

        § 4 The databases and registers related to consumers, credit protection services and the like are considered entities of public character.

        § 5. Once the prescription for the collection of debts of the consumer has been completed, no information will be provided by the respective Credit Protection Systems that may prevent or hinder new access to credit from suppliers.

        § 6 All information referred to in the main paragraph of this article must be made available in accessible formats, including for the disabled person, at the request of the consumer. (Included by Law No. 13,146, of 2015) (Duration)

        Art. 44. Public consumer protection agencies shall keep updated records of substantiated complaints against suppliers of products and services, and shall disclose it publicly and annually. The disclosure will indicate whether or not the complaint was served by the supplier.

        § 1 Access to the information contained therein is provided for guidance and consultation by any interested party.

        § 2 - The same rules set forth in the previous article and in the sole paragraph of art. 22 of this code.

        
