CHAPTER IV
The Judgment Thing

        Article 103. In the collective actions referred to in this code, the judgment shall be judged:

        I - erga omnes, unless the request is rejected because of insufficient evidence, a hypothesis in which any person entitled to legitimacy may initiate another action, with the same basis as new evidence, in the hypothesis of item I of the sole paragraph of art. 81;

        II - ultra parts, but limited to the group, category or class, except for improvisation due to lack of evidence, under the terms of the previous section, when dealing with the hypothesis provided for in item II of the sole paragraph of art. 81;

        III - erga omnes, only in case of request, to benefit all victims and their successors, in case hypothesis III of the sole paragraph of art. 81.

        § 1. The effects of the res judicata provided for in items I and II shall not prejudice the individual interests and rights of members of the collectivity, group, category or class.

        § 2. In the case provided for in item III, in case of dismissal of the request, the interested parties that have not intervened in the process as litisconsortes may propose individual indemnification action.

        § 3. The effects of the res judicata of which art. 16, combined with art. 13 of Law No. 7,347 of July 24, 1985, shall not prejudice actions for compensation for personal injury suffered individually or as provided in this Code, but, if the request is made, the victims and their successors shall benefit. Proceed with the liquidation and execution, pursuant to the terms of arts. 96 to 99.

        § 4. The provisions of the preceding paragraph apply to the conviction.

        Art. 104. Collective actions, provided for in items I and II and the sole paragraph of art. 81, do not induce lis pendens for individual actions, but the effects of the res judicata erga omnes or ultra parts referred to in items II and III of the previous article will not benefit the authors of the individual actions if their suspension is not requested within thirty Days, counting from the science in the records of the lawsuit of collective action.
