CHAPTER I
General Provisions

        Art. 81. The defense of the interests and rights of consumers and victims may be exercised in individual or collective action.

        Single paragraph. The collective defense will be exercised when it is:

        I - diffuse interests or rights, understood as such, for the purposes of this Code, indivisible transindividuals held by persons undetermined and bound by actual circumstances;

        II - collective interests or rights, so understood, for the purposes of this Code, transindividuals, of an indivisible nature held by a group, category or class of persons linked to one another or to the other party by a legal relationship;

        III - homogeneous individual interests or rights, thus understood as arising from common origin.

        Art. 82. For the purposes of art. 81, sole paragraph, are concurrently legitimized: (Drafting provided by Law 9.008, dated 21.3.1995) (See Law No. 13.105, of 2015) (Duration)

        I - the Public Prosecutor's Office,

        II - the Union, the States, the Municipalities and the Federal District;

        III - the entities and organs of the Public Administration, direct or indirect, although without legal personality, specifically destined to the defense of the interests and rights protected by this code;

        IV - Associations legally constituted for at least one year and which include among their institutional purposes the defense of the interests and rights protected by this code, without the joint authorization.

        § 1 The requirement of pre-constitution may be waived by the judge, in the actions foreseen in arts. 91 et seq., Where there is a manifest social interest evidenced by the extent or characteristic of the damage, or by the relevance of the legal good to be protected.

        Article 83. In order to defend the rights and interests protected by this Code, all kinds of actions capable of providing adequate and effective protection are admissible.

        Article 84. In an action that has as its object the fulfillment of the obligation to do or not to do, the judge will grant the specific tutelage of the obligation or will determine measures that ensure the practical result equivalent to the one of the accomplishment.

        § 1 The conversion of the obligation into losses and damages shall only be admissible if the author chooses it or if it is impossible to obtain specific protection or obtain the corresponding practical result.

        § 2 The indemnification for damages shall be done without prejudice to the fine (article 287 of the Code of Civil Procedure).

        § 3 If the grounds of the claim are relevant and there is justification of fear of ineffectiveness of the final dismissal, it is lawful for the judge to grant the guardianship, either beforehand or after prior justification, as mentioned by the defendant.

        § 4 The judge may, in the event of paragraph 3 or in the sentence, impose daily fine on the defendant, regardless of the author's request, if it is sufficient or compatible with the obligation, setting a reasonable period for compliance with the precept.

        § 5 For the specific protection or to obtain the equivalent practical result, the judge can determine the necessary measures, such as search and seizure, removal of things and people, work breakdown, impediment of harmful activity, in addition to requisition of force police officer.

        Art. 85. (Vetoed).

        Art. 86. (Vetoed).

        Art. 87. In the collective actions dealt with in this code there shall be no advance of costs, fees, expert fees and any other expenses, nor condemnation of the author association, unless proven in bad faith, in legal fees, costs and procedural expenses.

        Single paragraph. In case of bad faith litigation, the author association and the directors responsible for filing the suit shall be jointly and severally liable in attorneys' fees and at ten times the costs, without prejudice to liability for damages.

        Art. 88. In the hypothesis of art. 13, sole paragraph of this Code, the return action may be filed in an autonomous proceeding, with the possibility of proceeding in the same proceedings, the denunciation of the proceedings being forbidden.

        Art. 89. (Vetoed)

        Art. 90. The norms of the Code of Civil Procedure and of Law No. 7.347, of July 24, 1985, including with respect to the civil investigation, are applied to the actions foreseen in this title, in what does not contradict its dispositions.
