CHAPTER II
Collective Actions for the Defense of Homogeneous Individual Interests

        Art. 91. The legitimates referred to in art. 82 may, in their own name and in the interest of the victims or their successors, file a collective civil action for liability for individual damages, in accordance with the provisions of the following articles. (Redaction given by Law 9.008, dated 21.3.1995)

        Art. 92. The Public Prosecutor, if he does not file suit, will always act as prosecutor of the law.

        Single paragraph. (Bent).

        Art. 93. Subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court, the local court has jurisdiction for the case:

        I - in the forum of the place where the damage occurred or should occur, when local;

        II - in the jurisdiction of the State Capital or in the Federal District, for damages of national or regional scope, applying the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure to cases of concurrent jurisdiction.

        Art. 94. A proposal for action, a notice will be published in the official body, so that interested parties may intervene in the process as litisconsortes, without prejudice to the wide dissemination by the media of the consumer protection agencies.

        Article 95. In the case of the origin of the request, the condemnation will be generic, establishing the responsibility of the defendant for the damages caused.

        Art. 96. (Vetoed).

        Art. 97. The liquidation and execution of a sentence may be promoted by the victim and his / her successors, as well as by the legitimates referred to in art. 82.

        Single paragraph. (Bent).

        Art. 98. The execution may be collective, being promoted by the legitimates of the art. 82, covering the victims whose indemnifications have already been set in a liquidation order, without prejudice to the filing of other executions. (Redaction given by Law 9.008, dated 21.3.1995)

        Paragraph 1. The collective execution shall be based on the certificate of the liquidation sentences, which shall include the occurrence or not of the final and unappealable decision.

        § 2 The court is competent to execute the judgment:

        I - of the liquidation of the sentence or of the condemnatory action, in case of individual execution;

        II - of the condemnatory action, when collective execution.

        Art. 99. In the event of an insolvency proceeding resulting from a conviction under Law No. 7,347, dated July 24, 1985, and indemnification for individual damages resulting from the same harmful event, they shall have preference in payment. (See Decree No. 407 of 1991)

        Single paragraph. For the purposes of this article, the allocation of the amount collected to the fund created by Law No. 7,347 of July 24, 1985, will be withheld pending the decision of a second degree the actions for compensation for individual damages, except in the event that the equity Of the debtor is manifestly sufficient to cover all debts.

        Art. 100. After the term of one year without qualification of interested parties in number compatible with the severity of the damage, the legitimated ones of art. 82 to carry out the liquidation and execution of the due indemnity. (See Decree No. 407 of 1991)

        Single paragraph. The proceeds of the indemnity due shall revert to the fund established by Law No. 7,347 of July 24, 1985. (See Decree No. 407 of 1991)
