        Art. 105. The National Consumer Defense System (SNDC), federal, state, Federal District and municipal bodies and private consumer protection entities are part of the system.

        Art. 106. The National Department of Consumer Protection, of the National Secretariat of Economic Law (MJ), or federal agency that replaces it, is a coordinating body for the policy of the National System of Consumer Protection.

        I - to plan, elaborate, propose, coordinate and execute the national consumer protection policy;

        II - receive, analyze, evaluate and forward queries, denunciations or suggestions submitted by representative entities or legal entities governed by public or private law;

        III - provide consumers with permanent guidance on their rights and guarantees;

        IV - inform, raise awareness and motivate the consumer through different means of communication;

        V - request the judicial police to initiate a police investigation to assess the crime against consumers, in accordance with current legislation;

        VI - represent the competent Public Prosecutor's Office for the purpose of adopting procedural measures within the scope of its attributions;

        VII - bring to the attention of the competent bodies administrative infractions that violate the diffuse, collective or individual interests of consumers;

        VIII - request the participation of organs and entities of the Union, States, Federal District and Municipalities, as well as assist in the inspection of prices, supply, quantity and security of goods and services;

        IX - to encourage, with financial resources and other special programs, the formation of consumer organizations by the population and by state and municipal public bodies;

        X - (Vetoed).

        XI - (Vetoed).

        XII - (Vetoed)

        XIII - to develop other activities compatible with its purposes.

        Single paragraph. In order to achieve its objectives, the National Department of Consumer Protection may request the participation of organs and entities of notable technical and scientific specialization.

