CHAPTER IV
Of the Quality of Products and Services, of the Prevention and the Reparation of the Damages

SECTION III
Responsibility for Product and Service Addiction

Article 18. Suppliers of durable or non-durable consumer products are jointly and severally liable for defects in quality or quantity that render them unfit or inadequate for their consumption or for their reduction in value, as well as those resulting from disparity, Indications in the container, packaging, labeling or advertising message, respecting the variations due to their nature, and the consumer may require the replacement of the vitiated parts.

Paragraph 1. If the defect is not remedied within a maximum period of thirty days, the consumer may, alternatively and at his option, require:

I - the replacement of the product with another of the same species, in perfect conditions of use;

II - the immediate return of the amount paid, monetarily updated, without prejudice to any losses and damages;

III - the proportional reduction of the price.

Paragraph 2. The parties may agree to reduce or extend the period provided for in the preceding paragraph, and may not be less than seven nor more than one hundred and eighty days. In the adhesion contracts, the term clause must be agreed separately, by means of express expression of the consumer.

Paragraph 3. The consumer may make immediate use of the alternatives of paragraph 1 of this article whenever, due to the extent of the defect, the substitution of the defective parts may compromise the quality or characteristics of the product, reduce its value or be Essential product.

Paragraph 4. If the consumer chooses the alternative of item I of paragraph 1 of this article, and it is not possible to substitute the good, there may be substitution of another of a different kind, brand or model, by complementation or restitution of any price difference , Without prejudice to the provisions of items II and III of paragraph 1 of this article.

Paragraph 5. In the case of supply of fresh products, the immediate supplier shall be liable to the consumer, except when clearly identified by the producer.

Paragraph 6. Are unfit for use and consumption:

I - products whose expiry dates have expired;

II - products deteriorated, altered, adulterated, damaged, falsified, corrupted, fraudulent, harmful to life or health, dangerous or even those in disagreement with the regulations of manufacture, distribution or presentation;

III - products which for any reason prove to be unsuitable for the purpose for which they are intended.

Article 19. Suppliers shall be jointly and severally liable for defects in the quantity of the product where, in the light of changes in their nature, their net content is less than the information on the container, packaging, labeling or advertising message, Alternatively and at your choice:

I - the proportional reduction of the price;

II - supplementation of weight or measure;

III - the replacement of the product with another of the same species, brand or model, without the aforementioned defects;

IV - the immediate return of the amount paid, monetarily updated, without prejudice to any losses and damages.

Paragraph 1. The provisions of paragraph 4 of the previous article shall apply to this article.

Paragraph 2. The immediate supplier will be responsible when weighing or measuring and the instrument used is not checked according to official standards.

Art. 20. The service provider responds to the quality defects that make them unfit for consumption or diminish their value, as well as those resulting from the disparity with the indications contained in the offer or advertising message, and the consumer may, your choice:

I - the reexecution of the services, without additional cost and when applicable;

II - the immediate return of the amount paid, monetarily updated, without prejudice to any losses and damages;

III - the proportional reduction of the price.

Paragraph 1. The re-execution of the services may be entrusted to duly qualified third parties, at the risk and expense of the supplier.

Paragraph 2. Services that prove inadequate for reasons reasonably expected of them, as well as those that do not comply with the regulatory norms of serviceability, are inappropriate.

Article 21. In the provision of services for the purpose of repairing any product, the obligation of the supplier to use appropriate and new original replacement components or to maintain the manufacturer's technical specifications shall be deemed implicit except for Authorization of the consumer.

Article 22. The public agencies, by themselves or their companies, concessionaires, permissionaires or in any other form of undertaking, are obliged to provide adequate, efficient, safe and, as far as essential, continuous services.

Single paragraph. In cases of total or partial noncompliance with the obligations referred to in this article, it shall be the legal persons compelled to comply with them and to repair the damages caused, as provided for in this Code.

Art. 23. The ignorance of the supplier about the quality defects due to the inadequacy of the products and services does not exempt him from responsibility.

Art. 24. The legal guarantee of suitability of the product or service is independent of an expressed term, the supplier's contractual exoneration is prohibited.

Article 25. The contractual provision of a clause that precludes, exempts or attenuates the indemnification obligation provided for in this and in the previous sections is hereby prohibited.

Paragraph 1. If there is more than one responsible for causing the damage, all will be jointly liable for the reparation provided for in this and in the previous sections.

Paragraph 2. If the damage caused by component or part incorporated in the product or service, are jointly responsible its manufacturer, builder or importer and what carried out the incorporation.
