Art. 61. Crimes against consumer relations provided for in this Code, without prejudice to the provisions of the Criminal Code and special laws, constitute the conduct set forth in the following articles.

Art. 62. (Vetoed).

Art. 63. Omitting overt signs or signs about the harmfulness or dangerousness of products, on the packaging, in the containers, in the containers or in advertising:

Penalty - Detention from six months to two years and fine.

§ 1 - The same penalties shall be imposed on those who fail to alert, by means of ostensive written recommendations, on the dangerous nature of the service to be rendered.

§ 2 If the crime is guilty:

Penalty Arrest of one to six months or fine.

Art. 64. Failure to notify the competent authority and consumers of the harmfulness or dangerousness of products of which knowledge is subsequent to their placing on the market:

Penalty - Arrest of six months to two years and fine.

Single paragraph. The same penalties shall be imposed on those who fail to withdraw from the market immediately, when determined by the competent authority, harmful or dangerous products in accordance with this Article.

Art. 65. Performing a high-risk hazardous service, contrary to the determination of competent authority:

Penalty Detention from six months to two years and fine.

Single paragraph. The penalties of this article are applicable without prejudice to those corresponding to personal injury and death.

Art. 66. To make false or misleading statements or omit relevant information about the nature, characteristic, quality, quantity, safety, performance, durability, price or guarantee of products or services:

Penalty - Detention from three months to one year and fine.

§ 1 - Those who sponsor the offer shall be subject to the same penalties.

§ 2. If the crime is guilty;

Penalty Arrest of one to six months or fine.

Art. 67. Make or promote advertising that knows or ought to be misleading or abusive:

Penalty Arrest of three months to one year and fine.

Single paragraph. (Vetoed).

Art. 68. Make or promote advertising that knows or ought to know to be able to induce the consumer to behave in a harmful or dangerous way to his health or safety:

Penalty - Detention from six months to two years and fine:

Single paragraph. (Vetoed).

Art. 69. Fail to organize factual, technical and scientific data that give publicity base:

Penalty Arrest of one to six months or fine.

Art. 70. Use in repairing used products, parts or spare parts, without the authorization of the consumer:

Penalty Arrest of three months to one year and fine.

Art. 71. Use, in the collection of debts, of threat, coercion, physical or moral embarrassment, false false or misleading statements or any other procedure that exposes the consumer unreasonably to ridicule or interferes with his work, rest or leisure:

Penalty Arrest of three months to one year and fine.

Art. 72. Prevent or impede the access of the consumer to the information contained therein in registers, database, records and records:

Penalty Arrest of six months to one year or fine.

Art. 73. Fail to immediately correct consumer information contained in a register, database, records or records that you know or should know to be inaccurate:

Penalty Arrest of one to six months or fine.

Art. 74. Fail to deliver to the consumer the warranty term properly filled out and with a clear specification of its content;

Penalty Arrest of one to six months or fine.

Art. 75. Anyone who contributes to the crimes referred to in this Code, affects the punishments to which they are guilty, as well as the director, administrator or manager of the legal entity that promotes, permits or in any way approve The supply, offering, exhibition for sale or maintenance in storage of products or the supply and provision of services under the conditions prohibited by it.

Art. 76. Aggravating circumstances of the crimes defined in this code are:

        I - are committed in times of severe economic crisis or in the event of calamity;

        II - cause serious individual or collective harm;

        III - disguise the unlawful nature of the procedure;

        IV - when committed:

        A) by a public servant, or by a person whose economic and social condition is manifestly superior to that of the victim;

        B) to the detriment of workers or farmers; Of less than eighteen or more than sixty years old or of people with mental disabilities that are not or not interdicted;

        V - they are practiced in operations involving food, medicines or any other essential products or services.

Art. 77. The pecuniary penalty provided for in this Section shall be fixed in fine days, corresponding to the minimum and maximum length of days of the custodial sentence commencing the crime. In the individualization of this fine, the judge will observe the provisions of art. 60, §1 of the Penal Code.

Art. 78. In addition to penalties involving deprivation of liberty and a fine, may be imposed cumulatively or alternately, observing odysseus in arts. 44 to 47 of the Penal Code:

        I - temporary prohibition of rights;

        II - the publication in mass communication media or audience, at the expense of the convicted person, of news about the facts and the conviction;

        III - the provision of services to the community.

Article 79. The value of the guarantee, in the infractions dealt with in this code, shall be fixed by the judge or by the authority that presided over the investigation, between one hundred and two hundred thousand times the value of the National Treasury Bond (BTN) or equivalent index That will replace it.

Single paragraph. If so recommends the economic situation of the defendant or defendant, the bond may be:

        A) reduced by half of its minimum value;

        B) increased by the judge up to twenty times.

Art. 80. In the criminal proceedings related to the crimes foreseen in this code, as well as to other crimes and contraventions involving consumer relations, may intervene, as assistants of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the legitimate ones indicated in art. 82, subsection III and IV, to which also it is possible to propose subsidiary criminal action, if the denunciation is not offered within the legal term.

